# -backorder_prediction_for_supply_chain
A backorder is an order for a good or service that cannot be filled at the current time due to a lack of available supply. The item may not be held in the company's available inventory but could still be in production, or the company may need to still manufacture more of the product. The backorder is an indication that demand for a company's product outweighs its supply. They may also be known as the company's backlog.  The nature of the backorder and the number of items on backorder will affect the amount of time it takes before the customer eventually receives the ordered product. The higher the number of items backordered, the higher the demand for the item.  Backordered items often have a higher return rate. There are additional costs for expediting or air freighting backordered product, upgrading customer outbound shipments at their cost to get the backorders there faster, and for inventory control personnel spending significant time expediting product. Retaining customers can be a challenge faced by many businesses as customers might not prefer backorders in the future. In this paper, we are trying to predict how likely the proposed product will go into backorder or not. For this, Machine Learning Algorithms are used to devise a predictive model for the imbalanced class problem. This is achieved by integrating the proposed profit-based measure into the prediction model and optimizing the decision threshold to identify the optimal backorder strategy.  Predicting Backorders in Inventory Mangement Context. Original dataset from Kaggle's "Can You Predict Product Backorders?"
